docs/application-selection.md, before:

# Application Selection

Rendering the manifests generated by all applications in the repository on each pull request can be slow. Limiting the number of applications rendered can speed up the rendering process significantly. By default, `argocd-diff-preview` will render all applications in the repository.

Here are _4_ ways to limit which applications are rendered:

## Rendering only changed applications

You can configure the tool to render only the applications affected by changes in a pull request. This optimizes the rendering process by focusing on the applications directly impacted by the modified files.

To achieve this, you need to add the annotation `argocd-diff-preview/watch-pattern` to all your Applications’ `metadata.annotations` and your ApplicationSets’ metadata.annotations and `spec.template.metadata.annotations`. Then, in your CI pipeline, provide the tool with a list of changed files. If no list is provided, the annotation will be ignored. The `watch-pattern` annotation takes a comma-separated list of file paths or regex patterns. The tool will render the application if any of the patterns match the changed files.

!!! important "Note"
    In order to filter applications based on changed files, the annotation `argocd-diff-preview/watch-pattern` must exist in the base branch.

*Example:*

By adding the annotation `argocd-diff-preview/watch-pattern: "examples/helm/charts/myApp/.*, examples/helm/values/filtered.yaml"` to the Application manifest, the `my-app` application will only be rendered if the `filtered.yaml` file or a file in the `examples/helm/charts/myApp/` folder is modified in the PR. However, the `my-app` application will also be rendered if its own `Application` manifest is changed, so there's no need to include the application's file path in the watch-pattern annotation.

**Application Example**

```yaml title="Application" hl_lines="7"
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: my-app
  namespace: argocd
  annotations:
    argocd-diff-preview/watch-pattern: "examples/helm/charts/myApp/.*, examples/helm/values/filtered.yaml"
spec:
  sources:
    - repoURL: https://github.com/dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview
      ref: local-files
    - path: examples/helm/charts/myApp
      repoURL: https://github.com/dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview
      helm:
        valueFiles:
          - $local-files/examples/helm/values/filtered.yaml
  ...
```

**ApplicationSet Example**

```yaml title="ApplicationSet" hl_lines="7 19"
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: ApplicationSet
metadata:
  name: my-appset
  namespace: argocd
  annotations:
    argocd-diff-preview/watch-pattern: "examples/helm/charts/.*, examples/helm/values/filtered.yaml"
spec:
  generators:
    - git:
        repoURL: https://github.com/dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview
        revision: HEAD
        directories:
          - path: examples/helm/charts/*
  template:
    metadata:
      name: '{{ .path.basename }}'
      annotaitons:
        argocd-diff-preview/watch-pattern: 'examples/helm/charts/{{ .path.basename }}/.*, examples/helm/values/filtered.yaml'
    spec:
      project: {{ .path.basename }}
      source:
        repoURL: hhttps://github.com/dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview
        targetRevision: HEAD
        path: '{{ .path.path }}'
        helm:
          valueFiles:
            - ../../values/filtered.yaml
            - values.yaml
  ...
```

#### How to use it in a GitHub Actions Workflow

You can use the [`tj-actions/changed-files`](https://github.com/tj-actions/changed-files) action in your workflow and pass the output to the `argocd-diff-preview` tool. Providing the tool with a list of changed files will ensure you only render applications that watch those file paths. Any application without the `argocd-diff-preview/watch-pattern` annotation will be ignored.

```yaml title=".github/workflows/generate-diff.yml" linenums="1" hl_lines="16-18 39"
name: Generate Diff Tool Change

on:
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - "main"

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      contents: read
      pull-requests: write

    steps:
      - name: Get changed files
        id: changed-files
        uses: tj-actions/changed-files@v45

      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          path: pull-request

      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          ref: main
          path: main

      - name: Generate Diff
        run: |
          docker run \
            --network=host \
            -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
            -v $(pwd)/main:/base-branch \
            -v $(pwd)/pull-request:/target-branch \
            -v $(pwd)/output:/output \
            -e TARGET_BRANCH=${{ github.head_ref }} \
            -e REPO=${{ github.repository }} \
            -e FILES_CHANGED="${{ steps.changed-files.outputs.all_changed_files }}"
            dagandersen/argocd-diff-preview:v0.1.8
```

## Ignoring individual applications

You can exclude specific applications from rendering by adding the annotation `argocd-diff-preview/ignore: "true"` to their manifest. This is useful for skipping applications that don’t require a diff preview.

*Examples:*
```yaml title="Application" hl_lines="7"
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: my-app
  namespace: argocd
  annotations:
    argocd-diff-preview/ignore: "true"
spec:
  ...
```

```yaml title="ApplicationSet" hl_lines="6"
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: ApplicationSet
metadata:
  name: my-app
  annotations:
    argocd-diff-preview/ignore: "true"
spec:
  ...
```

## Label Selectors

Run the tool with the `--selector` option to filter applications based on labels. The option supports `=`, `==`, and `!=`.

*Example:*
```bash
argocd-diff-preview --selector "team=a"
```
This command :arrow_up: will target the following application :arrow_down: and ignore all applications that do not have the label `team: a`.

```yaml title="Application" hl_lines="5-6"
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: my-app
  labels:
    team: a
spec:
  ...
```

## Application File Path Regex

Alternatively, use the `--file-regex` option to limit rendering to Applications whose file paths match a regular expression. This is helpful when rendering changes from specific teams or directories.

*Example:*

If someone in your organization from *Team A* changes one of their applications, the tool can be run with:
```bash
argocd-diff-preview --file-regex="/Team-A/"
```
This ensures only applications in folders matching `*/Team-A/*` are rendered.

Commit message:

Docs | Add section about Argo CD Manifest Paths Annotation

docs/application-selection.md, after:

# Application Selection

Rendering the manifests generated by all applications in the repository on each pull request can be slow. Limiting the number of applications rendered can speed up the rendering process significantly. By default, `argocd-diff-preview` will render all applications in the repository.

Here are _4_ ways to limit which applications are rendered:

## Rendering only changed applications 

You can configure the tool to render only the applications affected by changes in a pull request. This optimizes the rendering process by focusing on the applications directly impacted by the modified files.

### watch-pattern Annotation

One way to achieve this, is to add the annotation `argocd-diff-preview/watch-pattern` to all your Applications’ `metadata.annotations` and your ApplicationSets’ `metadata.annotations` and `spec.template.metadata.annotations`. Then, in your CI pipeline, provide the tool with a list of changed files. If no list is provided, the annotation will be ignored. The `watch-pattern` annotation takes a comma-separated list of file paths or regex patterns. The tool will render the application if any of the patterns match the changed files.

!!! important "Note"
    In order to filter applications based on changed files, the annotation `argocd-diff-preview/watch-pattern` must exist in the base branch.

*Example:*

By adding the annotation `argocd-diff-preview/watch-pattern: "examples/helm/charts/myApp/.*, examples/helm/values/filtered.yaml"` to the Application manifest, the `my-app` application will only be rendered if the `filtered.yaml` file or a file in the `examples/helm/charts/myApp/` folder is modified in the PR. However, the `my-app` application will also be rendered if its own `Application` manifest is changed, so there's no need to include the application's file path in the watch-pattern annotation.

**Application Example**

```yaml title="Application" hl_lines="7"
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: my-app
  namespace: argocd
  annotations:
    argocd-diff-preview/watch-pattern: "examples/helm/charts/myApp/.*, examples/helm/values/filtered.yaml"
spec:
  sources:
    - repoURL: https://github.com/dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview
      ref: local-files
    - path: examples/helm/charts/myApp
      repoURL: https://github.com/dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview
      helm:
        valueFiles:
          - $local-files/examples/helm/values/filtered.yaml
  ...
```

**ApplicationSet Example**

```yaml title="ApplicationSet" hl_lines="7 19"
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: ApplicationSet
metadata:
  name: my-appset
  namespace: argocd
  annotations:
    argocd-diff-preview/watch-pattern: "examples/helm/charts/.*, examples/helm/values/filtered.yaml"
spec:
  generators:
    - git:
        repoURL: https://github.com/dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview
        revision: HEAD
        directories:
          - path: examples/helm/charts/*
  template:
    metadata:
      name: '{{ .path.basename }}'
      annotaitons:
        argocd-diff-preview/watch-pattern: 'examples/helm/charts/{{ .path.basename }}/.*, examples/helm/values/filtered.yaml'
    spec:
      project: {{ .path.basename }}
      source:
        repoURL: https://github.com/dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview
        targetRevision: HEAD
        path: '{{ .path.path }}'
        helm:
          valueFiles:
            - ../../values/filtered.yaml
            - values.yaml
  ...
```

### BETA: Argo CD Manifest Paths Annotation

Alternatively, you can use the `argocd.argoproj.io/manifest-generate-paths` annotation to limit the applications rendered. More info can be found in the [Argo CD documentation](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/high_availability/#manifest-paths-annotation).

Example:

```yaml title="Application" hl_lines="7"
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: guestbook
  namespace: argocd
  annotations:
    argocd.argoproj.io/manifest-generate-paths: .
spec:
  source:
    repoURL: https://github.com/argoproj/argocd-example-apps.git
    targetRevision: HEAD
    path: guestbook
# ...
```

### How to use the filtering annotations with a GitHub Actions Workflow

You can use the [`tj-actions/changed-files`](https://github.com/tj-actions/changed-files) action in your workflow and pass the output to the `argocd-diff-preview` tool. Providing the tool with a list of changed files will ensure you only render applications that watch those file paths. Any application without the `argocd-diff-preview/watch-pattern` annotation will be ignored.

```yaml title=".github/workflows/generate-diff.yml" linenums="1" hl_lines="16-18 39"
name: Generate Diff Tool Change

on:
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - "main"

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      contents: read
      pull-requests: write

    steps:
      - name: Get changed files
        id: changed-files
        uses: tj-actions/changed-files@v45

      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          path: pull-request

      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          ref: main
          path: main

      - name: Generate Diff
        run: |
          docker run \
            --network=host \
            -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
            -v $(pwd)/main:/base-branch \
            -v $(pwd)/pull-request:/target-branch \
            -v $(pwd)/output:/output \
            -e TARGET_BRANCH=${{ github.head_ref }} \
            -e REPO=${{ github.repository }} \
            -e FILES_CHANGED="${{ steps.changed-files.outputs.all_changed_files }}"
            dagandersen/argocd-diff-preview:v0.1.8
```

## Ignoring individual applications

You can exclude specific applications from rendering by adding the annotation `argocd-diff-preview/ignore: "true"` to their manifest. This is useful for skipping applications that don’t require a diff preview.

*Examples:*
```yaml title="Application" hl_lines="7"
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: my-app
  namespace: argocd
  annotations:
    argocd-diff-preview/ignore: "true"
spec:
  ...
```

```yaml title="ApplicationSet" hl_lines="6"
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: ApplicationSet
metadata:
  name: my-app
  annotations:
    argocd-diff-preview/ignore: "true"
spec:
  ...
```

## Label Selectors

Run the tool with the `--selector` option to filter applications based on labels. The option supports `=`, `==`, and `!=`.

*Example:*
```bash
argocd-diff-preview --selector "team=a"
```
This command :arrow_up: will target the following application :arrow_down: and ignore all applications that do not have the label `team: a`.

```yaml title="Application" hl_lines="5-6"
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: my-app
  labels:
    team: a
spec:
  ...
```

## Application File Path Regex

Alternatively, use the `--file-regex` option to limit rendering to Applications whose file paths match a regular expression. This is helpful when rendering changes from specific teams or directories.

*Example:*

If someone in your organization from *Team A* changes one of their applications, the tool can be run with:
```bash
argocd-diff-preview --file-regex="/Team-A/"
```
This ensures only applications in folders matching `*/Team-A/*` are rendered.
