# Application Selection

Rendering the manifests generated by all applications in the repository on each pull request can be slow. Limiting the number of applications rendered can speed up the rendering process significantly. By default, `argocd-diff-preview` will render all applications in the repository.

Here are three ways to limit which applications are rendered:

## Label Selectors

Run the tool with the `--selector` option to filter applications based on labels. The option supports `=`, `==`, and `!=`.

*Example:*
```bash
argocd-diff-preview --selector "team=a"
```
This command :arrow_up: will target the following application :arrow_down: and ignore all applications that do not have the label `team: a`.

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: my-app
  labels:
    team: a
spec:
  ...
```

## Annotations

You can exclude specific applications from rendering by adding the annotation `argocd-diff-preview/ignore: "true"` to their manifest. This is useful for skipping applications that don’t require a diff.

*Example:*
```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: my-app
  annotations:
    argocd-diff-preview/ignore: "true"
spec:
  ...
```

## File Regex

Alternatively, use the `--file-regex` option to limit rendering to manifests whose file paths match a regular expression. This is helpful when rendering changes from specific teams or directories.

*Example:*

If someone in your organization from *Team A* changes to one of their applications, the tool can be run with:
```bash
argocd-diff-preview --file-regex="/Team-A/"
```
This ensures only applications in folders matching `*/Team-A/*` are rendered.