docs/existing-cluster.md, before:

# BETA: Connect to an Existing Cluster

> This feature is new and not well tested. You're more than welcome to try it out and share feedback.

Instead of spinning up an ephemeral cluster, you can connect to an existing one. This saves about `60`–`90` seconds per run.

We highly recommend **not** using your production Argo CD instance for rendering manifests. Instead, install a dedicated Argo CD instance.

The Argo CD instance does **not** need to be exposed to the internet, since `argocd-diff-preview` connects through a KubeConfig file.

To use this feature, simply mount a valid KubeConfig with access to the cluster, and pass these options: `–create-cluster false –argocd-namespace `

This will skip creating a new cluster and connect to Argo CD via port-forwarding in the specified namespace.

## Requirements

- The default `admin` user must not be disabled in Argo CD.
- The `default` Argo CD project must exist.
- The required secrets for authentication has already been added to the cluster.

## Example Demo

### _Step 1_: Create cluster (skip if you already have a cluster with Argo CD installed)
```bash
kind create cluster --name existing-cluster
helm repo add argo https://argoproj.github.io/argo-helm
helm install argo-cd argo/argo-cd --version 8.0.3
```


### _Step 2_: Clone the base and target branches
```bash
# Clone the base branch into a subfolder called `base-branch`
git clone https://github.com/dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview base-branch --depth 1 -q 

# Clone the target branch into a subfolder called `target-branch`
git clone https://github.com/dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview target-branch --depth 1 -q -b helm-example-3
```

### _Step 3_: Run the tool

Make sure you:
- mount the KubeConfig to the container (`-v ~/.kube:/root/.kube`)
- Disable cluster creation (`--create-cluster=false`)
- Specify the Argo CD namespace (`--argocd-namespace=default`)

```bash
docker run \
  --network host \
  -v ~/.kube:/root/.kube \
  -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  -v $(pwd)/output:/output \
  -v $(pwd)/base-branch:/base-branch \
  -v $(pwd)/target-branch:/target-branch \
  -e TARGET_BRANCH=helm-example-3 \
  -e REPO=dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview \
  dagandersen/argocd-diff-preview:v0.1.8 \
  --argocd-namespace=default \
  --create-cluster=false
```

And then the output will look something like this:

```
✨ Running with:
✨ - reusing existing cluster
✨ - base-branch: main
✨ - target-branch: helm-example-3
✨ - output-folder: ./output
✨ - argocd-namespace: default
✨ - repo: dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview
✨ - timeout: 180 seconds
🔑 Unique ID for this run: 60993
🤖 Fetching all files for branch (branch: main)
🤖 Found 52 files in dir base-branch (branch: main)
...
🤖 Fetching all files for branch (branch: helm-example-3)
🤖 Found 52 files in dir target-branch (branch: helm-example-3)
...
🦑 Logging in to Argo CD through CLI...
🦑 Logged in to Argo CD successfully
🤖 Converting ApplicationSets to Applications in both branches
...
🤖 Patching 19 Applications (branch: main)
🤖 Patching 19 Applications (branch: helm-example-3)
🤖 Rendered 11 out of 38 applications (timeout in 175 seconds)
🧼 Waiting for all application deletions to complete...
🧼 All application deletions completed
🤖 Got all resources from 19 applications from base-branch and got 19 from target-branch in 7s
🔮 Generating diff between main and helm-example-3
🙏 Please check the ./output/diff.md file for differences
✨ Total execution time: 10s
```

Commit message:

Docs | Add new section on authenticating with cloud providers

docs/existing-cluster.md, after:

# 🚧 BETA 🚧: Connecting to an existing cluster

> This feature is new and not well tested. You're more than welcome to try it out and share feedback. Please open an issue on GitHub if you have any questions. 

Instead of spinning up an ephemeral cluster, you can connect to an existing one. This saves about `60`–`90` seconds per run.

We highly recommend **not** using your production Argo CD instance for rendering manifests. Instead, install a dedicated Argo CD instance.

The Argo CD instance does **not** need to be exposed to the internet, since `argocd-diff-preview` connects through a KubeConfig file.

To use this feature, simply mount a valid KubeConfig with access to the cluster, and pass these options: `–create-cluster false –argocd-namespace `

This will skip creating a new cluster and connect to Argo CD via port-forwarding in the specified namespace.

## Requirements

- The default `admin` user must not be disabled in Argo CD.
- The `default` Argo CD project must exist.
- The required secrets for authentication has already been added to the cluster.

## Example Demo

### _Step 1_: Create cluster (skip if you already have a cluster with Argo CD installed)
```bash
kind create cluster --name existing-cluster
helm repo add argo https://argoproj.github.io/argo-helm
helm install argo-cd argo/argo-cd --version 8.0.3
```


### _Step 2_: Clone the base and target branches
```bash
# Clone the base branch into a subfolder called `base-branch`
git clone https://github.com/dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview base-branch --depth 1 -q 

# Clone the target branch into a subfolder called `target-branch`
git clone https://github.com/dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview target-branch --depth 1 -q -b helm-example-3
```

### _Step 3_: Run the tool

Make sure you:
- Mount the KubeConfig to the container (`-v ~/.kube:/root/.kube`)
- Disable cluster creation (`--create-cluster=false`)
- Specify the Argo CD namespace (`--argocd-namespace=<ns>`)

```bash
docker run \
  --network host \
  -v ~/.kube:/root/.kube \
  -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  -v $(pwd)/output:/output \
  -v $(pwd)/base-branch:/base-branch \
  -v $(pwd)/target-branch:/target-branch \
  -e TARGET_BRANCH=helm-example-3 \
  -e REPO=dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview \
  dagandersen/argocd-diff-preview:v0.1.11 \
  --argocd-namespace=default \
  --create-cluster=false
```

And then the output will look something like this:

```
✨ Running with:
✨ - reusing existing cluster
✨ - base-branch: main
✨ - target-branch: helm-example-3
✨ - output-folder: ./output
✨ - argocd-namespace: default
✨ - repo: dag-andersen/argocd-diff-preview
✨ - timeout: 180 seconds
🔑 Unique ID for this run: 60993
🤖 Fetching all files for branch (branch: main)
🤖 Found 52 files in dir base-branch (branch: main)
...
🤖 Fetching all files for branch (branch: helm-example-3)
🤖 Found 52 files in dir target-branch (branch: helm-example-3)
...
🦑 Logging in to Argo CD through CLI...
🦑 Logged in to Argo CD successfully
🤖 Converting ApplicationSets to Applications in both branches
...
🤖 Patching 19 Applications (branch: main)
🤖 Patching 19 Applications (branch: helm-example-3)
🤖 Rendered 11 out of 38 applications (timeout in 175 seconds)
🧼 Waiting for all application deletions to complete...
🧼 All application deletions completed
🤖 Got all resources from 19 applications from base-branch and got 19 from target-branch in 7s
🔮 Generating diff between main and helm-example-3
🙏 Please check the ./output/diff.md file for differences
✨ Total execution time: 10s
```

## Authenticate with Cloud Providers

If you're connecting to a cluster on a cloud provider, you often use a plugin or [ExecConfig](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/kubeconfig.v1/#ExecConfig) to authenticate (e.g. `kubelogin` for Azure AKS or `aws eks get-token` for AWS EKS).

You can check this by running `kubectl config view --minify -o jsonpath='{.users[*].user}'` and look for the `command` field.

These plugins/binaries are **not** available inside the Docker image, so you'll need to run `argocd-diff-preview` as a standalone binary.

You can find installation instructions in the [docs](https://dag-andersen.github.io/argocd-diff-preview/installation/#__tabbed_1_2).
